---
slug: 2024-02-19-february
title: "MazzumaGPT"
authors:
  name: Denicio Bute
  title: Community Content Lead - Cardano Foundation
  url: https://github.com/weqanhet
  image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/61522394?v=4  
tags: [AI, interview]
description: "In this interview, Nii Osae, co-founder of Mazzuma, discusses MazzumaGPT—an AI tool for generating smart contract code on Cardano. He addresses developer skill gaps, promotes web2 to web3 migration, and supports both Plutus and Solidity. The team has entered partnerships with Adaverse, Emurgo, and others to enhance its development. MazzumaGPT aims to lower entry barriers, increase smart contract deployments, and deepen open-source community involvement."
image: https://developers.cardano.org/img/og/og-blog-MazzumaGPT.png
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

 [<ThemedImage
style={{width: '300px'}}
alt="https://mazzuma.com/mazzumagpt/"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/devblog/mazzumagpt-light.svg'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/devblog/mazzumagpt-dark.svg'),
  }}
/>](https://mazzuma.com/mazzumagpt/)

In this interview, Nii Osae, co-founder of Mazzuma, discusses MazzumaGPT—an AI tool for generating smart contract code on Cardano. He addresses developer skill gaps, promotes web2 to web3 migration, and supports both Plutus and Solidity. The team has entered partnerships with Adaverse, Emurgo, and others to enhance its development. MazzumaGPT aims to lower entry barriers, increase smart contract deployments, and deepen open-source community involvement.


<!-- truncate -->
<br />


**_Hey, Nii Osae,  it's great to connect with you today. Could you please share a bit about your professional background before becoming part of MazzumaGPT?_**
I am a computer scientist with over 8 years of experience in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. My experiences involve leading engineering teams to build distributed systems across the sectors of remittances in fintech, blockchain-enabled payments and most recently a large-language model MazzumaGPT.


<br />

**_What is your role at MazzumaGPT?_**
I am a cofounder and Director of Software Engineering at Mazzuma. I lead the research and engineering team to develop MazzumaGPT. This mainly involves data curation and pipeline engineering, model finetuning and evaluation, model deployment, quality assurance and operational efficiency.


<br />

**_Can you tell us more about the project and the problem MazzumaGPT is trying to address?_**
MazzumaGPT is a developer tool that enables developers to generate smart contract code using AI. This was developed due to the difficulty that most developers face when creating smart contracts for blockchain applications. We noticed through our developer survey that most developers in the web2 space who want to build blockchain applications often face a skill gap whereby they need to learn a different programming language like Plutus in the case of Cardano which often can have a steep learning curve.
This is where we sought out to develop a large-language model which we finetuned on Plutus to enable these developers to seamlessly create smart contracts on blockchains such as Cardano.


<br />

**_What would you say are the two most important use cases for MazzumaGPT?_**
The primary use case we have seen for MazzumaGPT based on our userbase is for creation of smart contracts which are native to the blockchain ecosystem. These are mainly in the form of native tokens, NFTs, token swap contracts etc. 
The second category of use cases are instances where web2 developers use MazzumaGPT to convert their web2 application logic to web3 code. This often includes identity management systems, logistics and supply chain tracking on blockchain, medical record storage and many more. These use cases are very exciting to us because it enables the migration of real world applications to the blockchain which validates the paradigm of decentralization.


<br />

**_Why did you choose to launch your project on Cardano?_**
We chose Cardano due to its focus and support for developers in emerging markets who need to bridge the skill gap and also to enrich the Cardano ecosystem with an AI-powered tool which will enable Cardano devs to build easier and faster within the ecosystem.


<br />

**_What kind of influence is MazzumaGPT expected to have on our ecosystem or, more broadly, on the world?_**
The blockchain and web3 ecosystem stands a lot to gain by leverage artificial intelligence in its workflows and toolchains. One of the core strengths of an ecosystem lies with ease of development and this is where MazzumaGPT will have a huge impact on the Cardano developer space. Having access to AI tools like MazzumaGPT will lower the barrier to entry for developers, increase the number of smart contracts and applications being deployed on chain and consequentially increase the overall economic value of the ecosystem.


<br />

**_Is MazzumaGPT solely focused on empowering developers for the Cardano ecosystem?_**
MazzumaGPT supports both Plutus and Solidity. We chose these two programming languages to support and enhance developer diversity and inclusivity in the blockchain ecosystem. We are also working on adding other community-driven languages such as Aiken to MazzumaGPT to expand and give developers more options and a higher degree of freedom in building their smart contracts.


<br />

**_Now, what are your accomplishments so far, and what are you most proud of?_**
Since the launch of MazzumaGPT in June 2023, we have experienced very good adoption within the developer ecosystem. With over 1,500 developers from more than 80 countries generating over 5,000 samples of code, we are enthused about this progress and highly motivated to get MazzumaGPT into the hands of more developers.


<br />

**_What distinguishes MazzumaGPT from other LLM platforms in our industry? What benefits does it offer that others don't?_**
Most LLMs have been pretrained for general tasks and often fall short when prompted with blockchain-centric queries which mostly falls outside their training data. This leads to model hallucinations where the LLM outputs a wrong answer confidently. In the case of MazzumaGPT, we have specially curated training data from the Plutus Pioneer Program which has been audited and verified to ensure high levels of data quality. This gives MazzumaGPT the ability to generate accurate code for Cardano developers as compared to the generic LLMs on the market.


<br />

**_Does MazzumaGPT have a roadmap? If so, please share it with us and explain what you have achieved so far._**
Our roadmap for 2023 encompassed research, development and launch of the MazzumaGPT model. On the retrospective viewpoint, these milestones have been achieved and sets the path for our 2024 roadmap which will be geared towards expanding the model’s capabilities to support a wider range of programming languages and deepen our support for the open source community.


<br />

**_What does the future hold for MazzumaGPT? For example, what new developments or features should we expect in the next 6 to 12 months, and what will this mean for the overall project?_**

The future for MazzumaGPT is heavily focused on developer experience for the open source community. We deeply believe in the power of open source software and how it contributes to the growth of the ecosystem. In light of this, we will be releasing MazzumaGPT for free and open access to the community. Also, we will be adding more community driven languages and launch our developer program which will reward developers who contribute to the model’s training data with community tokens. 


<br />

**_Which partnerships have you engaged so far, and which ones are the most impactful?_**
We have partnerships with [Adaverse and Emurgo](https://adaverseaccelerator.medium.com/mazzuma-gets-funding-from-cardano-accelerator-adaverse-to-launch-its-ai-powered-smart-contract-2ce89ab4cc0c) (founding member of Cardano), [Nvidia](https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/generative-ai-startups-africa-middle-east/)  and AWS who have been very instrumental in our ML model infrastructure and compute access, and Ethereum foundation for provision of training data for Solidity.


<br />

**_Tell us about your team. Who are the people behind MazzumaGPT?_**
- **Nii Osae**: (Cofounder, Director of Software Engineering)
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/starkosae/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/stark_osae

- **Kofi Genf**: (Cofounder, Director of Business Strategy)
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mrgenfi/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/K_Genfi