---
slug: 2025-02-03-february
title: "FluidTokens Interview"
authors: [denicio]
tags: [defi]
description: "In this interview, Raul Antonio, CTO of FluidTokens, shares with us how the platform is unlocking liquidity within the Cardano ecosystem. FluidTokens offers a unique way for users to access instant, unspendable loans by leveraging much of Cardano’s staking mechanism, providing both security and convenience for borrowers and lenders. 

Did you know FluidTokens is also paving the way for Bitcoin users to interact with Cardano through Bitcoin DeFi? Well, Raul also touches on this. He explains how the platform is building exciting partnerships, like their collaboration with Minswap to develop a DEX for programmable tokens. He also gives us a glimpse into the platform’s future plans, including cross-chain integration and ZK P2P loans."
image: https://developers.cardano.org/img/og/og-blog-fluidtokens.png
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

 [<ThemedImage
style={{width: '200px'}}
alt="https://www.dexhunter.io"
sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/devblog/fluid-light.svg'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/devblog/fluid-light.svg'),
  }}
/>](https://www.dexhunter.io)

In this interview, Raul Antonio, CTO of FluidTokens, shares with us how the platform is unlocking liquidity within the Cardano ecosystem. FluidTokens offers a unique way for users to access instant, unspendable loans by leveraging much of Cardano’s staking mechanism, providing both security and convenience for borrowers and lenders. 

Did you know FluidTokens is also paving the way for Bitcoin users to interact with Cardano through Bitcoin DeFi? Well, Raul also touches on this. He explains how the platform is building exciting partnerships, like their collaboration with Minswap to develop a DEX for programmable tokens. He also gives us a glimpse into the platform’s future plans, including cross-chain integration and ZK P2P loans.


<!-- truncate -->
<br />


**_Hello, Raul Antonio. It's great to connect with you today and learn more about FluidTokens—something I’m really looking forward to. But before we dive into that, could you please introduce yourself to our readers?_**

Hi! I am Raul, also known as ElRaulito on Twitter. I was born in El Salvador in '93, when my country was not yet widely known. However, I grew up in Italy, where I became an electronic engineer, always curious about new technologies, that's how I discovered blockchain. Since 2021, I've been learning and coding on the Cardano blockchain.


<br />

**_How did the idea for FluidTokens come about? What specific problem were you trying to solve? Please take us along on that journey?_**

When FluidTokens appeared, there was very little DeFi on Cardano. After the NFT bull run, everyone had a lot of liquidity locked inside NFTs. There was a need for something that could unlock this liquidity, and the solution was Fluid.


<br />

**_How would you describe FluidTokens to someone who is not crypto-native?_**

A website where you can provide money for borrowers and get interest on top of that without intermediaries.


<br />

**_Can you describe the core technology behind FluidTokens? What are the underlying mechanisms that make your platform unique?_**

We leverage much of Cardano’s staking mechanism. Our smart contracts are able to create unspendable loans, essentially allowing for instant loans for staking delegation. I can borrow up to 1M ADA with one click and use it solely for staking to a pool. Nobody can spend that money, so lenders don't have to worry about defaults from borrowers.


<br />

**_How does FluidTokens leverage Cardano's technology to enhance its platform?_**

We build our smart contracts using Aiken and use MeshJs as the off-chain framework, utilizing the available tools for Cardano developers to create a seamless user experience. ADA deposited on our platform remains delegated to the user, allowing them to participate in DeFi while also earning staking rewards.


<br />

**_What are some of the key use cases that FluidTokens enables? Can you share specific examples of how your platform is being used today?_**

If I have a stake pool and would like to increase my stake size, I can borrow from Fluid with one click, selecting the amount I need and the duration. That’s it. The platform will take care of the rest.


<br />

**_What sets your project apart from other DeFi protocols on Cardano?_**

We are pioneers of Bitcoin DeFi and will allow Bitcoin users to play with Cardano in a very easy way.


<br />

**_Which partnerships or collaborations are you particularly proud of, and how have they contributed to FluidTokens’ development?_**

We have partnered with Minswap to jointly develop a DEX compatible with programmable tokens, which will address a significant gap in the ecosystem. With this partnership, Cardano will be able to easily onboard ANY stablecoin.


<br />

**_What security measures and protocols does FluidTokens have in place to ensure the safety of users' assets and transactions?_**

Audits with firms like Vacuum Labs and Anastasia Labs are just some of the steps we take to ensure smart contracts are safe. On Discord, tools like Security Bot help us prevent at least 10 scams daily, and our platform provides a detailed breakdown of transactions so users always know exactly what they’re signing—these are just a few examples of our commitment to security and transparency.


<br />

**_What are the major milestones or developments that FluidTokens plans to achieve in 2025?_**

More cross-chain integration with Bitcoin, development on Midnight for ZK P2P loans, and a new lending protocol are coming in Q1 2025.


<br />

**_What challenges have you faced during FluidTokens' development, and how have you overcome them?_**

At first, we were just two developers with a dream. It was hard to build on Cardano, but now it’s easier. There’s more material available, and we have finally been able to teach and educate more developers to hire.


<br />

**_How do you envision FluidTokens contributing to the broader Cardano ecosystem in the coming years?_**

FluidTokens will make people be able to use Cardano without noticing they are using it. Adoption of the masses is our core value and we have worked hard to achieve it.


<br />

**_What message would you like to share with the Cardano community about FluidTokens and your vision for the future?_**

We build and continue to build on Cardano for its vision of decentralization, the empowerment of anyone, and its governance model. These values will always be at the core of our mission, and the Fluid brand will fight to uphold them.


<br />

**_Maybe a question I should have asked earlier, but I figured, let’s not close without asking: What do you enjoy doing in your free time, outside of the world of crypto?_**

I really like playing Magic The gathering, going in the mountains to snowboard and dance to latin music. It’s a very good way to disconnect from coding for a little bit.


**_Tell us about your team. Who are the people behind FluidTokens?_**
 
- **[Matteo Coppola](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matteo-coppola-mazzetti/)** – CEO and my co-founder, the man who introduced me to Cardano. He is in charge of business development and smart token coding.  
- **[Ullas](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ullas-mahalingappa-65689a163/)** – Our UI/UX mastermind. He was the frontend dev for CNFT.io and has a lot of experience in Cardano development.  
- **[Alberto](https://www.linkedin.com/in/albertorizzi/) & [Lorenzo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lorenzo-marcolli/)** – Our junior devs who have achieved great things.  
- **[Lorenzo Martani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lorenzo-marcolli/)** – Our marketing genius, who has helped us a lot in the last two years.  